GOAL
the purpose of this set of folders is to help you manage all your IP-related data and documents.
this should be very helpful for daily IP management, but also to ensure readiness for due diligence events.
IP involves a ton of paperwork and is often not clearly understood, especially not the connection between IP and your business. At least for organization needs, this folder set should help, at least until the day you buy a dedicated IP management system, and perhaps after that as well.

***THE FOLDER SET IS PROVIDED WITH NO GUARANTEES. IN FACT, YOU ARE ADVISED TO ALWAYS SEEK COMPETENT IP CONSUL. IP IS COMPLEX, LET SOMEBODY ELSE DEAL WITH THE COMPLEXITY WHILE YOU FOCUS ON BUILDING A GREAT BUSINESS.***

STRUCTURE
the tree of folders is designed to have a place for all documents (but no guarantees). Some of the documents should be generated by you.
Of course, you can ignore the folder structure or modify it as desired.
the folder set is generic and is not specifically adapted for any particular company/situation.
each folder includes a readme.txt file explaining how to use that folder
where relevant, template files or template folders are provided for generating new files and new folders, as needed. just copy and rename.

"general" includes general information about your IP situation, for example presentations, procedures and status reports. i also included a consolidated folder where you put all papers relating to ownership of your IP.

"patent data" is used to store any document relating to creating and prosecuting patent applications. most communications from your IP attorney go in here. note it is arranged by patent family (all patents sharing a common genesis). Also note each country has its own patent file.

"IP docs in process" is where you park documents that you do not have the time to sort, are not yet sure where to put or are still working on

not all IP is patents. "other IP data" is for managing other types of IP, like trade secrets and trademarks.

"the future" is where the future of your IP portfolio is handled, for example, ideas not yet matured into patents

"expert zone" contains documents that require a more advanced understanding of IP. In general, the folder set is designed to allow you to grow with time and be better used as your IP understanding improves. 
avoid the "danger zone" folder if you do not have competent legal advice.

IMPORTANT WARNINGS
(i) assume anything you write down is discoverable in court and/or that you will need to show it during some investment processes. this means being super careful about "admitting" (especially as you may be wrong!) negative information, for example, that you are infringing, do not deserve a patent, that device is not covered by IP (or cannot be) etc. always obtain competent IP advice
(ii) the data in this set of folders is very sensitive and confidential. make sure it is secured against unauthorized access.
